Depth-first search[edit]
Main article: Depth-first search
Trees can be traversed in pre-order, in-order, or post-order.[1] These searches are referred to as depth-first search (DFS), as the search tree is deepened as much as possible on each child before going to the next sibling. For a binary tree, they are defined as display operations recursively at each node, starting with the root, whose algorithm is as follows:[2] [3]

The general recursive pattern for traversing a (non-empty) binary tree is this: At node N you must do these three things:

(L) recursively traverse its left subtree. When this step is finished you are back at N again.

(R) recursively traverse its right subtree. When this step is finished you are back at N again.

(N) Actually process N itself.

We may do these things in any order and still have a legitimate traversal. If we do (L) before (R), we call it left-to-right traversal, otherwise we call it right-to-left traversal.

Pre-order[edit]
Display the data part of the root (or current node).
Traverse the left subtree by recursively calling the pre-order function.
Traverse the right subtree by recursively calling the pre-order function.
In-order[edit]
Traverse the left subtree by recursively calling the in-order function.
Display the data part of the root (or current node).
Traverse the right subtree by recursively calling the in-order function.
In a search tree, in-order traversal retrieves data in sorted order.[4]

Post-order[edit]
Traverse the left subtree by recursively calling the post-order function.
Traverse the right subtree by recursively calling the post-order function.
Display the data part of the root (or current node).
The trace of a traversal is called a sequentialisation of the tree. The traversal trace is a list of each visited root. No one sequentialisation according to pre-, in- or post-order describes the underlying tree uniquely. Given a tree with distinct elements, either pre-order or post-order paired with in-order is sufficient to describe the tree uniquely. However, pre-order with post-order leaves some ambiguity in the tree structure.[5]

Generic tree[edit]
To traverse any tree with depth-first search, perform the following operations recursively at each node:

Perform pre-order operation.
For each i from 1 to the number of children do:
Visit i-th, if present.
Perform in-order operation.
Perform post-order operation.